SQL Operators - EXISTS (#531)
Codecademy/docs: content/sql/concepts/operators/terms/exists/exists.md

---
Title: EXISTS
Description: 'EXISTS tests a subquery and returns TRUE if there are any records in it.'
Subjects:
  - 'Data Science'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Operators'
  - 'Database'
  - 'Queries'
  - 'SQLite'
  - 'MySQL'
  - 'PostgreSQL'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-sql'
  - 'paths/analyze-data-with-sql'
  - 'paths/design-databases-with-postgresql'
---

`EXISTS` tests a subquery and returns `TRUE` if there are any records in it.

## Syntax

> ```sql

Reviewer: Thinking this should be pseudo because of the select statement depicting multiple possible selections.

> `EXISTS` tests a subquery and returns `TRUE` if at least one record satisfies it. Otherwise, `FALSE` is returned.

Reviewer 2: Instead of "record" should we say "row"?

Reviewer 2: Fwiw, less characters. 😎

SELECT column1, column2, ...
FROM table_one
WHERE EXISTS (SELECT column1 FROM table_two WHERE condition);
```

> ## Example

Author: No if condition is false for all records in table_two.

> Return all rows from table `users` where `user_id` appears in table `locked_out`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the example below, the statement returns `TRUE` if any and all rows (or a given user) in the `users` table that also exists in the `locked_out` table, per a match in `user_id`. Otherwise, if no such row exists, the statement returns `FALSE`.
```
